Python: 

How does your program read the log file and turn it into 
something the rest of the application can use?
- The program reads the log file and then for every line, it extracts the 
structured log out of it and parses them into timestamp, log level, service etc 
and other parameters. it then converts these extracted parameters into structured
JSON called LogEntry. These are list of LogEntry objects that are passed to the 
LLM for analysis. Each log entry in the list contains timestamp, log level, service,
message, and metadata (optional key-value pairs extracted from the log message).

LLM: 

What exactly happens when you send a prompt to the local model?
- The prompt is sent to the Ollama server as an HTTP request to the 
/api/generate endpoint. The request is sent as a POST request with a 
JSON body containing the prompt and other parameters. The Ollama server
processes the prompt and returns a JSON response containing the generated
text. The response is sent back to the application as an HTTP response.
- The response from the Ollama server is a JSON object containing the 
generated text. This JSON object is then parsed to extract the generated
text. The parsed text is then printed to the console as the analysis result.

Ollama: 

Why can your application use the LLM without paying for an API?
- Because the applications uses a model llama3 that is running locally
on the Ollama server. This means, that my own system's resources are being 
used to run the model. Thus, Sage is being able to use an LLm without
paying for the API.

Integration: 

How does your Python application communicate with Ollama?
- The application connects with Ollama via HTTP request to the /api/generate
endpoint. The request is sent as a POST request with a JSON body containing 
the prompt and other parameters. The Ollama server processes the prompt and 
returns a JSON response containing the generated text.
- The response is then parsed to extract the generated text. The parsed text
is then printed to the console as the analysis result.

Failure: 

What happens if Ollama isn't running?
- The HTTP request fails and the application generates a log asking the user
to confirm if the ollama server is running locally or not.

Data: 

What happens if the log file is huge?
- The application will read the file line by line and parse it. Howerever, if the file 
is huge, it might take a lot of time to parse and it will consume a lot of memory.  
The user can provide the number of recent log entries to be analysed using the 
--last option in the command.

Reliability: 

What happens if the LLM produces a completely incorrect analysis?
- the analysis done by the LLM is probabilistic. There is no guarantee that 
the analysis will be correct. As of now, there are no guards to analyze the response
from the model, so that is something that we should take up in the upcoming versions
of the application.

Architecture: 

Which parts of your application are deterministic, and which parts are probabilistic?
- The parser, configuration, data model (LogEntry) and the CLI are deterministic. 
- The LLM is probabilistic.